Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Overview Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Avid typically buys existing assets and is ramping its new development capabilities. The firm intends to continually acquire new assets over the long-term to be able to service an increasing number of Residents and Investor-Partners. With the continuing growth of Avid Realty Partners’ operations and acquisition activities, Craig has recruited a highly experienced leadership team of real estate executives with decades of industry experience. See Meet the Avid Team to more detail on the Team’s depth of experience. Craig has always been fascinated by the overlap between Wall Street investment strategies and those used to invest in Multifamily properties, finding value that others missed. After leaving Wall Street in order to Build Something Meaningful, and in search of greater hands-on entrepreneurial activities, Craig was determined to start a business where his unwavering work ethic would produce a meaningful difference for our Residents, employee Team Members, and our Investor-Partners. Before founding Avid Realty Partners, Craig spent more than a decade as a highly acclaimed semiconductor equity research analyst at Smith Barney Citigroup and FBR Capital Markets where he serviced leading hedge and mutual fund clients, won multiple awards, and was one of CNBC’s go-to semiconductor market experts with over 75​ ​​TV appearances. Here, Craig had the opportunity to live and breathe the stock market daily, ride global economic cycles, perform deep dive analyses and underwrite companies’ financial results, study firms that were successful and those that were less successful, develop an institutional mindset, and learn to actively manage risk. Craig began his career at Intel Corporation in the Corporate Finance group where he helped upper management make optimal decisions to run the business, participated in the CPU monthly close and forecasting processes, and worked to maximize cash return metrics. At Intel, Craig garnered industry perspective and learned how large firms are run. In his free time, Craig enjoys spending time with his wife Jessie and other family and friends, exercising in the gym, practicing yoga, eating at NYC’s many fine restaurants, cooking, seeing live music, making music, traveling, scuba diving, and occasionally playing golf. Core Values Sign Up for our Newsletter Sign up to receive market updates and info on multifamily investment deals we’re working on. Go to Top