Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Join The Avid Team Careers at Avid Realty Partners At Avid Realty Partners, we invest in our team members through knowledge development, career building, and hands-on training. We recognize talent, respect hard work, and reward success. Our team members have the grit and determination to win. Radical Integrity is the cornerstone of everything we do every single day. Our Team Members are key to the firm’s culture of integrity, professionalism and dedication. At Avid Realty Partners, we look to attract and retain the smartest and most dedicated people in the real estate industry, hiring team members with a diversity of experience. Our Team’s desire to win, our passion for real estate, and our commitment to our Investor-Partners have propelled the firm into a trusted partner for Institutions, Family Offices, and High Net Worth investors across the spectrum. Our Most Valuable Asset As a small team, everyone at Avid Realty Partners has the opportunity to make a meaningful impact on our growth process. We value entrepreneurial energy, a bright attitude, smart decision making, a strong work ethic, and the sharing of experiences and ideas. The Employer of Choice We hire skills, traits, and talent rather than just filling roles based on a set career path. Company Culture Avid Realty Partners’ culture is driven by our multi-faceted commitments to our Investor-Partners, our property Residents, our corporate Team Members, and the communities in which we operate. As owners and managers of Peoples’ homes (multifamily properties), we feel the obligation and responsibility to provide safe, secure, comfortable housing at a fair price. Our company culture is centered around Radical Integrity, extreme Property-level execution, Identifying value at purchase of properties, and treating all Stakeholders with compassion and respect: Radical Integrity Everything we do starts and ends with integrity, and it is our most important company value. From how we treat our Investor-Partners, to maximizing our Residents’ quality of life, and including how we underwrite and assess investment opportunities, integrity is our company bedrock. Top Flight Property Execution Our value creation and investment integrity are enabled via our top-flight property execution. This includes maximizing our Residents’ living experience, which feeds back into our property performance with stronger revenues and less Resident turnover. We want our Residents to be happy, healthy, safe, and secure, and we continuously monitor management metrics to ensure our Team is delivering gold-standard property execution. Value Identification and Creation As an organization, one of our principle objectives is to identify and create value, delivering strong risk-adjusted returns to our Investor partners. We achieve this objective in a myriad of ways including via an aggressive bidding process, by seeing growth opportunities that others may not see (with the help of big data), by focusing on peak property performance, and by managing risk throughout the process. At the end of the day, our company’s strong average IRR track record and zero realized losses speak volumes. Operate with Compassion and Respect for all of our Stakeholders Compassion and Respect are fundamental to how we treat our Assets, Residents, Employee team members, Investor Partners, and the Communities in which we operate. Having an understanding for Residents’ unique situations is part of this. We work to maximize stakeholder value, which we believe creates a long-term positive feedback loop for our Investor partners and our organization. Being a good community citizen is important, and is something we actively focus on to help us continuously operate with Compassion and Respect for all of those around us. Sign Up for our Newsletter Sign up to receive market updates and info on multifamily investment deals we’re working on. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top