Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Invest With Us We have over 15 years of experience evaluating high-volatile investment products on Wall Street. Investor Information Form First Name* Last Name* Email* Cell Phone* State* State / Province / Region Zip Code* ZIP / Postal Code Testimonials As a 20-year real estate investor, my experience with Avid Realty Partners was among my most professional and profitable. Craig is a consummate relationship-builder, and a creative financial mind. His skill in leveraging opportunities in the multifamily space is tops. My only regret was not investing more capital with the Avid Realty Partners organization. "Marc A." Equity Sales & Branding Expert -- Investor I have engaged with Craig Berger on two deals so far and he has always been honest, smart, and diligent. It has been a pleasure to invest with Avid Realty Partners and I look forward to working with the team in the future. "Lu X." -- Investor I strongly endorse working with Avid Realty Partners. The transparency the firm provides in its modeling and regular business updates is impressive. Avid Realty Partners’ forecasting has been conservative and they have over-delivered for me. Craig is very accessible, and that makes me confident that the investment process is a long-term partnership from acquisition through exit. "Lance M." Resolute Capital Partners We appreciate the opportunity that Avid Realty Partners has given us to put our money to work in a variety of real estate projects without having to take on all of the work. We greatly value the timely and in-depth updates we receive on a regular basis, but most of all we appreciate the results from the multiple projects in which we’ve been involved. "Hal M." Senior Business Analyst, Apple -- Investor Our firm has made several investments with Avid Realty Partners. Avid Realty has represented their deals clearly and conservatively up front, and has delivered healthy income tax benefits, and robust total returns at exit. Craig has earned our trust with his competence in sourcing investments and delivering on projections. We look forward to reviewing and participating in future potential deals from this Sponsor. "Thomas M." Principal & CIO -- Investor I enjoy working with Craig and his team at Avid Realty Partners. I have always made a nice profit, and have had a great experience with regular communications along the way. Thanks to Craig and his team! "Scott R." Panera Franchisee Executive -- Investor I invested with Craig and the Avid Realty Partners team on a multifamily investment. The firm’s communication processes were regular and consistent, and the total return was amazing. I was very happy with this investment, and will consider investing again. "Peter B." Alternative Investments Director -- Investor Craig and his team were a great Buyer to work with. They performed and communicated well throughout the process, making it a great experience for both sides. I would highly recommend working with Avid Realty Partners. "Matt B." Vice Chairman -- Broker As a 20-year real estate investor, my experience with Avid Realty Partners was among my most professional and profitable. Craig is a consummate relationship-builder, and a creative financial mind. His skill in leveraging opportunities in the multifamily space is tops. My only regret was not investing more capital with the Avid Realty Partners organization. "Marc A." Equity Sales & Branding Expert -- Investor I have engaged with Craig Berger on two deals so far and he has always been honest, smart, and diligent. It has been a pleasure to invest with Avid Realty Partners and I look forward to working with the team in the future. "Lu X." -- Investor I strongly endorse working with Avid Realty Partners. The transparency the firm provides in its modeling and regular business updates is impressive. Avid Realty Partners’ forecasting has been conservative and they have over-delivered for me. Craig is very accessible, and that makes me confident that the investment process is a long-term partnership from acquisition through exit. "Lance M." Resolute Capital Partners We appreciate the opportunity that Avid Realty Partners has given us to put our money to work in a variety of real estate projects without having to take on all of the work. We greatly value the timely and in-depth updates we receive on a regular basis, but most of all we appreciate the results from the multiple projects in which we’ve been involved. "Hal M." Senior Business Analyst, Apple -- Investor Our firm has made several investments with Avid Realty Partners. Avid Realty has represented their deals clearly and conservatively up front, and has delivered healthy income tax benefits, and robust total returns at exit. Craig has earned our trust with his competence in sourcing investments and delivering on projections. We look forward to reviewing and participating in future potential deals from this Sponsor. "Thomas M." Principal & CIO -- Investor I enjoy working with Craig and his team at Avid Realty Partners. I have always made a nice profit, and have had a great experience with regular communications along the way. Thanks to Craig and his team! "Scott R." Panera Franchisee Executive -- Investor I invested with Craig and the Avid Realty Partners team on a multifamily investment. The firm’s communication processes were regular and consistent, and the total return was amazing. I was very happy with this investment, and will consider investing again. "Peter B." Alternative Investments Director -- Investor Craig and his team were a great Buyer to work with. They performed and communicated well throughout the process, making it a great experience for both sides. I would highly recommend working with Avid Realty Partners. "Matt B." Vice Chairman -- Broker Sign Up for our Newsletter Sign up to receive market updates and info on multifamily investment deals we’re working on. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top