Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next 7 Things to Consider Before Leasing Your Commercial Property View Larger Image Whenever you are planning to lease your commercial property soon, you have to consider several elements such as the lease’s terms, your tenants, as well as the market itself. This shortlist will give you a good idea about some of the important things you have to keep in mind to ensure a successful lease. 1. Know the Market Before you even think of leasing your commercial property, you first have to know all the things regarding the commercial real estate market. What is the rate of vacancy for commercial properties in your region and area, for instance? What rates are available for commercial properties similar to yours? Never assume that all commercial properties have similar lease costs and vacancy rates for every area. 2. Look into Potential Tenants After you advertised your property, you will soon hear from potential tenants. Make yourself familiar with their respective business. Their financials should be a requirement for you to determine their current ability to pay. See to it that they also have a robust and strong cash flow. Don’t forget to look into special needs, if they have any. 3. Check the Zoning While you consider prospective tenants, see to it that you are aware what your properties have been zoned for. Regulations and laws on zoning change on a regular basis, so see to it that your knowledge is updated for all new tenants. Leasing to a certain business in a place it is not zoned for will not be viable for them and for you, and can result in fees and fines. 4. Evaluate Your Assess Management Capability Leasing commercial properties takes a good deal of asset management. The asset managers can provide you advice on a lot of issues that may arise in commercial property leasing, which ranges from market knowledge to making some improvements, doing maintenance regularly, watching tenant’s financial achievements, and monitoring lease rollovers proactively. Once you hire a company that will handle your asset management, they can execute projects that range from expanding building size and upgrading parking lots. 5. Level Up Your Technology If Necessary If your building is old, you might need to upgrade cable lines or Wi-Fi to attract tenants who pay a huge amount of money. Access the digital world as it is part of company’s lifeline. If you want to retrofit, make sure to advertise new technological capability. 6. Know Your Tax Situation It is important for the property owners to know their tax situation, especially at a time when the tax code of the nation might be changing. Consult with the advisers on the changes in local, state, and federal taxes each year. You have to do it early so you have lots of time to plan for changes in taxes required or allowable deductions and regulations. 7. Consider Property Management Capability Several owners of commercial properties serve as their property managers, receiving leasing fees monthly, and inspecting buildings. Some contract the work out, either to specialized property managers or asset managers. If you act as a property manager for buildings, would you consider some changes? What services you require or prefer property managers to handle once you engage them? Once you lease commercial properties, see to it that you consider those factors above before you make your decision on the lease and tenant. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top