Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Invest In Real Estate Online View Larger Image Tips To Buy And Sell Commercial Real Estate The current state of the economy has made commercial real estate a tricky venture. Getting involved with commercial real estate comes with potential high financial risks. This article includes great advice to ensure your commercial real estate ventures will not bankrupt you, damage your business, or tarnish your reputation. If a real estate licensee should act as your agent, they automatically become your agent and must only work to perform actions that will work in your best interest. A dual agency is when one agent works for the two opposing parties on the same property sale. This must be disclosed and agreed upon by both parties. Make sure you match the type of property you have with the type of loan. If you have a small loan request, take it to a small bank. If you have a large loan, take it to a larger bank. This way you will be getting the service you need. Go online. Whether you’re buying or selling commercial real estate, the internet is a valuable tool to use in your endavor. Even when deals are made offline, people research and investigate online to become comfortable with properties and to reach more prospective buyers. Being online gives you a greater chance of success. A great tip to assist you when investing in commercial real estate is to attempt to positvely affect the areas of appreciation you can control. You should consider whether you can add some kind of development to your property and whether you can increase your rental rates when tenants leave. Improving the areas of appreciation you can control will positively increase your earnings. Commercial real estate is a whole different ball game. If you are looking to purchase or sell a piece of property in this category, make sure that you have a professional agent who specializes in this field. Their contacts and knowledge will be essential in the transaction and marketing. Research all the tactics and terms associated with real estate. If you are working with commercial properties, you need to be well-informed. Learn about wholesales, flipping, leasing, and any other terms you may not be familiar with. Being thoroughly knowledgeable is the first step to becoming successful in commercial real estate. Before you take any steps toward buying a property, you need to do your research and figure out what type of market it is. If the market is down then it is the best time to invest in property since it is usually much cheaper than the normal prices. You can do a lot with LinkedIn. Create a good profile for yourself and communicate actively with potential customers and partners. If you are not getting results from your LinkedIn activity, focus on a different kind of audience. You can also create a group yourself where you can keep people updated on your progress and on new opportunities. Commercial real estate is a rocky venture right now with the economy in the slumps and real estate sales suffering. Be careful with your investments and explore all options before jumping in to any legal agreements. The advice in this article will help you safely invest in commercial real estate. Related Videos Real Estate Or Online Business? FREE COURSE – 7 Reasons You’re Underpaid as a Software Developer http://vid.io/xoue SUBSCRIBE TO THIS CHANNEL: vid.io/xokz Join Simple … How To Invest into Real Estate Online SUBSCRIBE! Step by Step video of how use the stock market to invest into real estate. Investment Property Bookkeeping / Learn Real Estate Quickbooks For Free Reports from David and his team of advisers, please visit our website: http://www.hasslefreecashflowinvesting.com/investor-education/ Bookkeeping is … Creative Real Estate Financing Strategies Every Investor Should Know 2-Day Creative Financing Workshop – Los Angeles, CA on December 10th and 11th. Click Below to Learn More and Get Registered: … Crowdfunding for Real Estate Investment Crowdfunding is promoted as the new way to bring equity to projects through online platforms, offering project sponsors the opportunity to attract well-priced … By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top