Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next 4 Best Practices For Property Management View Larger Image Customers and clients won’t really understand what you as a property manager have to go through each day, making sure you serve them to your best. That is your job though, and it is also up to you to ensure that you perform it in the best way. In this article, you shall be informed of the best practices you should keep in mind the moment you open a property management service. These practices will ensure that your dealings go smoothly and that you as a manager get more clients in the near future. 1. Being Approachable There are two aspects of being approachable which you need to keep in mind. The first has to do with your personality; be sweet while being commanding so that anyone who converses with you is never in doubt regarding your credibility as a manager. Make yourself easy to talk to so that any individual living in a property he/she obtained through you feels at ease while sharing problems about it. The second is by utilizing modern-day means of communication. Having a WhatsApp service center functioning for most of the day, a functional email account, and a cell number devoted entirely to the management front are all excellent ways for you to relay to your clients that you are there for them. 2. Make Clients Feel Welcome Adjusting in new neighborhoods becomes a little problematic for families at times, but as their manager, you can extend your hand out to the people in their community and request them to assist the new neighbors and feeling at home. These gestures alone can develop a sense of trust in you which will never fade for your clients. If your efforts to accommodate them earlier on do work, you can expect both gratitude and opportunities to work alongside them later on. 3. Be Negotiable It is only justified for you to expect financial payment in exchange for your services to your clients, but showing concern and empathy in their financially difficult times can get you that extra credit of being an amazing manager. Property management does require instant funds because any damages ranging from punitive to self-inflicted are, at the end of the day, brought to you. This is where you might have to step out of the authoritative position and slide into the shoes of your customers. Show them that money holds priority, but not at the cost of bankrupting them, and they will sing your praises. 4. No to False Hopes Perhaps the best practice of them all is to be as coherent and clear with what you can offer your clients. If a property is not attainable under their budget regardless of what they do, do not try to pressurize them into buying it because: You can expect no service income They will not recommend you to anyone later on Portray the picture of the market as it is and do not try anything deceptive with the clients. These practices will, in turn, help your work flourish a lot more. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top