Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Things Real Estate Investors in Dallas Know That You Don’t View Larger Image Whether you are coming close to retirement or just starting off on your own, everyone should be mindful of future finances. One of the best ways to capitalize on your money is through investments. Here are a few things you can learn from real estate investors in Dallas about what they do. Real Estate Is Not as Volatile as Stocks When it comes to stocks, there is a lot of volatility. Some of this volatility has nothing to do with performance. Things like security breaches or scandals involving a CEO can cause a huge stock crash. This can happen at any time. Historically, real estate appreciates the longer you hold on to the property. When the real estate market improves, so does your equity. You don’t have to do anything more than be the owner. Real Estate Is a Tangible Asset Real estate investors in Dallas know real estate is akin to having cash in hand. You have a physical belonging. Stocks can dip at any time. A new car depreciates as soon as you drive it off the lot. Car insurance will only pay out the current value of the car. In the case of a total loss, you may still be upside down on your investment. With homeowner’s insurance, the value of the dwelling is completely covered, making it a much safer investment. Diversification at Its Finest If you are an experienced investor, you know how important it is to diversify your portfolio. If your portfolio is not diversified, you may wind up losing a lot of money. You need to have something there to offset a loss. If you are ready to cement your financial future, contact Avid Realty Partners to talk about your options. Published byGetnSocial By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Go to Top