Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next 6 Reasons Why Investing in Multi-Family Properties Is A Smart Deal View Larger Image If you are wondering if multifamily property investment is a good idea, the answer is a big YES. However, it is only good if it’s suited on your investor identity. As a matter of fact, it should be right for you. In order for you to fully understand this part, you have to understand the many advantages of investing in the multifamily real estate properties. Multifamily property investment is considered as one of the powerful investment strategies you could use to make consistent and astounding cash flow monthly. Yet, that is only one reason to consider investing in multifamily housing. Other reasons include the following: Phasing and Forcing Appreciation in Multifamily Properties is Much Easier in Comparison to Single Family Housing Appreciation rarely happens. You should do particular things to force the property’s value up or phase in benefits and amenities to tenants that will push up the appreciation. When it comes to single family housing, you do not have as numerous options with such activities because there is only so much you could do. Different Properties Under a Roof Means Simpler Management With the twelve individual properties, you might require more than 1 property manager, yet with 1 building, you will only require a manager. Finding a good property manager means you need to ask the appropriate questions and you always need a plan B in case the management company or property manage does not work out. Multifamily Housing Investment Enables You to Change Lives Once you make a space where the families may thrive, that is an advantage. You may go into the Walmart kind areas where you see numerous opportunities for enhancement. In smaller multifamily properties and apartment buildings, you will see an opportunity in a form of overgrowth of grounds, messed up swimming pools, boarded-up windows, dwellings that require a lot of help, and filthy laundry rooms. You Could Make More Cashflow in Multifamily Property It’s an exciting thing since there are some ways to make cash flow beyond rents. Make your space safe and clean. Consider adding security cameras to keep out bad elements and you’ll have a winner. As a matter of fact, that is known a win-win. You will win and your tenants win. You are making a space that raise quality of the lives of tenants that feel really good. Multifamily Properties Hold Value When the property is rehabbed and you have made it attractive to the tenants, it’ll also attract some investors who’ll be interested in purchasing properties later. You have put in place everything needs to retain and attract tenants. It means stable cash flow that’s appealing to the investors. There Are Good Tax Breaks with Multifamily Property Investing Once you give housing, it is a great thing. The city in the property is located likes the thought since you’re helping the city residents through providing safe, clean, and affordable housing to people who could not find it. As results, you may gain sorts of tax incentives, which are renowned as tax breaks. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top