Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Multifamily Investment Trends For 2018 View Larger Image Full steam ahead into 2018, market viewers have been able to locate multifamily investment trends which will rule the market throughout the year. The trends come from the reminiscence of the growth from last year, and they can bring in significant changes in the US housing market which has had the most rapid boom and slump cycle for the past few years. The following are expected to be the hit trends of 2018. 1. Rents Will Grow Home ownership is about to become a rare luxury in the United States in the upcoming years thanks to the inflation in prices and the greater value attached to basic necessities of life such as water and electricity. This is why people, specifically Millennials, are seeking every opportunity they can get to get a rented place for a living because affording a house is pretty much out of the question. However, what the trend is showing is that this growth will be moderated relative to previous years thanks to unavailability of high-society buyers. The increase in pressure to house more people from the states will get moderate the rents. 2. Rise in Suburban Value This year, an increased number of buyers are expected to focus on the suburban market as their multifamily housing market option. The reason can also be associated to the common reason of the value of a place associated with nature in a world more and more industrialize each year, but the truth is that class B and C properties are a lot more up for grabs in these areas relative to commercial ones. With a lesser strain on resources in these areas and more and more advancement in their vicinities, they are expected to become the buyers’ favorites for the year. 3. Impact of Job Association Multifamily markets in areas which occupy more and more of a city’s share of offices and market management systems are expected to rise in value and demand in this year as an onset of the previous year. The reason for this is the fact that people are not as willing to drive around miles every day in traffic, and are also willing to cut down on as many extra costs as they can. Neighborhoods which are classified as emerging markets for these jobs are, however, expected to fall behind in terms of accounting for the number of people willing to purchase hosing there. 4. Concentration of Power Power players like Freddie Mac in the multifamily market are expected to gain a greater share with more purchases in the market. The impact of the investment of these power players in the market leaves a vacuum which is then filled by buyers who show the most willingness to buy the area from them. In 2018 this focus of power among a few renowned families and parties in most states is likely to play a greater role in the affordability of houses in these markets. The weak buyers, in comparison, are expected to lose more purchasing power by the end of the year. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top