Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Investing In Multifamily Real Estate 101 View Larger Image Multifamily real estate 101 investment can be very profitable and rewarding in the long run. People trust it to create huge amounts of monthly incomes for themselves and their families. But there is so much to multifamily real estate investing that you should know about prior to making an investment or closing a deal. What Is Multifamily Real Estate? A multifamily real estate or residency is when multiple units of homes or residences are interconnected to form a single, larger housing unit. This unit therefore is divided into many smaller sub-units and is inhabited by multiple individuals or families at a given point of time. Common examples of multifamily real estate include apartment buildings, condos and townhouses. Investing In Multifamily Property In the recent years, it has been greatly encouraged to invest in multifamily property and real estate. Real estate agents view this investment as being a major smart move that will be very lucrative in the long run. Let’s take a look at some of the most common reasons (also probably benefits) of investing in multifamily property these days. It will help us get a better and clearer insight into the outcome of the investments. 1. Maintenance of Living in Multifamily Estate Is Simpler The one thing that is really gruesome about investing in properties is its maintenance. However, a multifamily property is inhabited by several people. Everyone plays his or her role in the maintenance and upkeep of the building or property. This makes you worry less about your real estate whilst it stays in a good condition for a long time. 2. Drastic Increase in Monthly Incomes It might seem like a very expensive deal when you invest in a full-fledged multifamily real estate at first but the truth is that it comes with long terms benefits such as a drastic increase in the monthly incomes. It is also a very stable source of post-retirement income. So basically a single time expensive deal can be very fruitful in the long run. 3. Easier Access and Commuting If you are not investing in the multifamily real estate as a whole unit but are rather purchasing or renting out a singular unit in the entire building i.e. a single penthouse or flat – it also gives you the edge of residing in a prime central location. This makes commute and access to other major locations around your easier. Quick Round Up Multifamily real estate investing is much like investing in stocks and assets in the stock market. The success and profit turnout rate as a result of it is much higher. It also allows people to invest in the property in multiple ways and by following various strategies. Moreover, if we choose to look at the bigger picture we would be able to see the numerous benefits that come along with investing in multifamily real estate. Ease of access to residency, privacy, moral support and higher financial stakes are to only name a few. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Go to Top