Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next The More The Merrier In Multifamily Units For Investment View Larger Image Today if you find yourself in a situation where money is immaterial for the time being and are faced with the option of investing in a number of properties all over the city or in a number of them in the same multifamily housing complex, choose the latter. There is no principle concept required to understand the benefit of doing so, but we shall do that for you as the article proceeds. It is true that by investing in various areas you will be reducing overall risks, but is that a worthy exchange for the increased maintenance charges you will have to manage? Let us find out. Benefits of Concentrated Management Concentrated management is a very easy concept to grasp; it means that a single entity can manage tangible assets located in very close proximity to each other. The overlying benefits include: A reduction in the overall cost because the payment is being made to a singular authority, not many of them The need to monitor the managing authority closely but the absence of any other such bodies to intrude the process The ability to choose the best asset management organization out there The major advantage you gain out of doing so is the fact that you save up your resources from being invested into preserving properties all over the city. What About the Cash Flow? It is true that on paper, more houses can grant you a greater cash flow more than a number of apartments in a multifamily housing complex, but what about the costs? Maintaining transport, accounting for any fraudulent activity, regulatory costs for the different many houses etc. pile up in no time right after the investment and needs a much greater degree of initial resources and preparation. If the amount of cash deducted from your overall amount is less at the end of the day, then your take-home income is greater. Quite a simple concept is it not? What Is the Optimal Number of Properties? 10 or more is a suitable number, but when we say 10 we do not mean that you need to be the sole owner of all of them. The apartments/portions can be in the form of collaborated assets, where you share them with a few partners who act as the initial investors. The reason that the optimal number is higher than you might have expected is that a minute investment can never bring you respectable returns from the start. In addition, here you will not be reliant entirely on one tenant alone. One tenant means that for the time your owned apartment is unpopulated, you can forget about making any money unless you rent it again or decided to sell it away. The chances of all 10 tenants leaving together are very slim, which means that you will have the risk nicely divided. Conclusion After hearing the figures, you might be thinking of the commercial loan you are about to treat yourself to. Rest assured that a loan does not have to be frightening if your payment prospects are clear, and your decision reflects rationality over desperateness. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top