Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Investing in Commercial Real Estate View Larger Image There are many advantages to investing in commercial real estate when compared to residential investing or flipping houses. As with many things, the individual investor needs to have a deep desire to add this type of investment to their portfolio. It’s not for everyone. Advantages to investing in commercial properties include greater potential income, a steady flow of cash, better leasing options and a reduced risk of long-term vacancies. Of course, with any venture, there are potential downsides. This is why it is imperative to partner with an experienced and successful commercial investment firm in NYC that leads and guides the investor through the entire process. The Rewards Outweigh the Risks Hands down, the number one reward to commercial real estate investing is the return on investment and a higher potential for income. Not even a residential real estate investment comes close. While a commercial real estate in NYC may bring in a return of six to 12 percent, a residential investment may bring in a one to four percent return. More lucrative and longer leasing contracts, lower vacancy risks and more property units contribute to this overall higher rate of return to the investor. Let the Cash Flow One distinct advantage to commercial real estate investing is cash flow. The cash flow can be more consistent and abundant than residential investments. Because of higher and longer-term business leasing contracts, an individual investor may rely on a steady stream of income coming in on monthly basis. In addition, commercial properties usually consist of multiple units to rent out. If the contract is just right, some tenants may end up paying operating costs on the property, instead of the investor or investors. Benefits to Investing in Commercial Real Estate There are many reasons an investor may choose to invest in commercial real estate in NYC. By way of example, an investor in commercial real estate may reap many rewards including future wealth and security, tax benefits and a diversification of their financial portfolio that speaks volumes when seeking other types of investment opportunities. Avid Realty Partners is a commercial real estate investment firm in New York and Dallas that has built a solid reputation of success for its investor clients. Published byGetnSocial By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top