Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next 4 Tax Benefits Derived From Multifamily Housing Investment View Larger Image Multifamily real estate investment has been well known for bringing about tax benefits in multiple forms to assist residents in increasing their cash flows respectively. This article aims to explain these benefits in sufficient detail so that you may be able to make the right saving decisions in your living complex. What must be noted, however, is that these benefits come at a cost of their own which start showing upon overuse, so be as optimal in capitalizing on your multifamily tax benefits as you can. 1. Depreciation Retrieval For a fixed place such as a Multifamily house, the principles of depreciation are applicable through and through. This means that each year, a certain amount has to be set off from the total earnings of the owner to account for the depreciated material within the house and its repair/maintenance, which is done through the federal depreciation table. 27.5 years is the maximum lifetime of this fixed ownership, which may sound absurd considering how a maintained house is always habitable, but 3.6% of your property tax gets saved annually as a provision for this depreciation. This means that the government allows residents to separate out the depreciation as part of the income tax, not as an after-tax payment. This, in turn, helps in saving money in the short term because the depreciation expense does not have to be dealt with, and increases cash flow in the long run. 2. Cost Segregation This has been a major benefit of Multifamily housing since its inception, and it is so because dividing the fixed assets present in the household according to their useful life period and then dealing with their depreciation helps in saving a lot more money. To understand this, think of a multifamily real estate which has assets such as carpets, windows, doors etc. Their useful life is much shorter than the house itself, usually taken to be around 7-10 years. Because of this difference in time span, depreciation is allowed to be sped up within the time frame because most of these assets will have their depreciation accounted for earlier on, but the amount you save annually on taxes will remain unchanged. Thus, this increase in cash flow further adds to your personal benefits. 3. Renting Deductions In a multifamily home, there are many chances that you will be able to allow a portion to another family staying for rent. Now the entire house may belong to you, but that portion is housing a separate family, meaning that it is completely legal for you to present the payment of the tax for that portion to that group living on rent. In addition, because they do not own any part of the property, they are not liable to receive any direct tax benefits from the depreciation savings. 4. Low Taxes For regular citizens, the tax rates on multifamily usually quite accommodating and less than income and earning taxes overall. This is solely done by the state to assist the living of your family, and what your take from these low taxes help you in saving even more in the long run. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top