Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Top Things to Consider when Investing in Commercial Real Estate in NYC View Larger Image When you are an investor, the commercial side of real estate can be quite appealing. However, it’s important to remember investing in commercial real estate in NYC is different than investing in residential real estate. With that in mind, read on for a few of the top things you should know and consider when deciding whether to invest in commercial real estate. Everything Takes a Little Longer When compared with investing in residential real estate, everything to do with investing in commercial real estate in NYC takes longer. Not only does finding new tenants take longer, but the rebuilding and cleaning times are typically extended as well. However, leases are longer so you will recoup money you spent faster and if you have the patience to wait for these things, commercial real estate investments can be lucrative. Always Avoid Failing Businesses If you are looking at a bar, grocery stores or even restaurants to invest in, you want to avoid failing business models. Look out for businesses that aren’t successful, no matter how much of a great investment they may look like. If they are failing, it’s usually for a reason and you don’t want to find out when it’s too late. Go Into It Expecting to Take an Active Role Investing in commercial real estate means you need to take an active role in the businesses you invest in. You want to be around and available to ensure the business is not only bringing in money, but doing things the right way as well. For more information on investing in commercial real estate in NYC, contact the professionals at Avid Realty Partners for help. Published byGetnSocial By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Go to Top