Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next 4 Things Investors Need To Consider When Acquiring An Apartment View Larger Image Investors always have the chance to make quick deals on properties that are listed on the market for sale. However, it is not ideal case scenario to strike a deal immediately – regardless of how tempting or attractive the offer might be! It is best to take you time, evaluate, assess and then only gradually reach a final decision. Apartment Sales On the Rise In the past people preferred to invest in big houses because it only seemed like the right thing to do. However, over the years the global economic system has seen all sorts of ups and downs like inflation and recession. This has led to the demand and property value of apartments become sky high! Only within the year 2016 and 2017, an incredible increase in the apartment sales has been recorded within only the United States. Billions dollar worth of property has been selling out and this only makes investors want to secure their financial investments by acquiring apartments for rental or re-sale purpose. Guide for Investors for Acquisition of Apartments If you are an active investor and are in search of a property apartment for acquisition – you are not alone. According to recent stats, every 2 out of 4 investors are actively hunting the markets for property for investment. However, the actual process of investment in the apartments is very overwhelming. Step 1 – Evaluation of Available Finances The first step that you need to take is to evaluate your finances in order to determine how many are available to you for investment. This is the basic grounding step and is very essential to take into consideration as you would not want to make unnecessary investments or overspend more than that is available to you for this purpose. Step 2 – Eligibility for Loans The next thing you want to do as an investor is to find out whether you are eligible for loans or not. This is the important step. Investors heavily rely on loans in order to make investments in multiple properties at the same time. It is also ideal for investors to make sure they can get loans if and when needed as this is helpful for them to invest in the apartments even if they fall short on their budgets. Step 3 – Determine Your Purpose Another very crucial step is to determine the purpose of your investment. Most investors invest in the property to secure their finances and re-sale the apartment with greater profits in the future. There are many other purposes for investment that could be valid such as residing yourself in the apartment or renting it out. However, you should determine the purpose so that you will know which factors you should be focusing on at time of market search for property. Step 4 – Compare Options The real estate world is jam packed with apartment and property options. The key rule is to never rush your decision because the investment can either be fruitful or a complete waste. Hence, you need to compare the options, take things slow and decide wisely. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top