Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Your Guide To Buying And Holding Property Strategy View Larger Image The property market is not only hounded by those looking for a decent place to live; there are a number of buyers seeking to buy and hold property just for the major financial benefits it might bring in the near future. For starters, it might be confusing to think as a property as a proper means of being at the top of your financial game, but this is your guide and it will ensure that what you withhold brings good fortune. In this article you will find ways which will help you decide in whether you should hold it or sell/give it off, and if so how to make the most of it. 1. Rent You have a perfectly well established (and maybe even furnished) property on hold for any and all future intents; what’s the harm for putting it up for grabs for tenants? There are some considerations you need to make including: Rent paying capacity Reliability Security Records Focus on the first faction of the three more because a constant source of earning is what you are essentially looking for. In the best case scenario, the rent you obtain will contribute to making the process of holding the property more economical for you. 2. Property Management This serves as a tip and as a reality check for those who feel that a locked property does not need management of any sorts; it most definitely does. Now you can hire a manager and make the task easier for yourself in terms of convenience, or save a little dough and make the management your own personal priority. In the former case, choose a manager wisely who is in touch with the right utility service authorities and builders who can reconstruct and fix up any part of the place when needed, and who ensures the well-being of the house while any residents are away for the time being. 3. Cost of Holding Figuring out how your financial position will be impacted by the decision of buying and holding the property is quite important, because you can set aside the posh nature of the neighborhood and the future benefits and figure out the present implications it will have on your financial position. In case of negative results, selling off the property is not exactly a bad decision. You can also make a direct contrast between the taxes and charges which you will incur on the property and the rent it can possibly grant you, and make it a self-fulfilling place. 4. Consequent Buying This is perhaps the most ambitious bit of this article because by this we mean that you should use one property to get you others and let the process repeat. It might be difficult to do so in a short amount of time, and especially if the property does not hold a lot of potential for bringing in money, but you need to find your markets. As long as you stay within legal barriers, whether you opt for housing rent, office rent, or any other leverage which can get you enough money, you can most certainly aim to expand your own personal property business. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top