Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Hotel Investment In 2018 View Larger Image Commercial investment has always been highly profitable. Whether the investment is in a hotel or any motel, tourist resort or other commercial properties, with the right care, it can benefit you a lot. This is the reason why major business firms are now investing in hotels. Businessmen are investing in commercial properties no matter what the nature of their business is. The hotel market is now being dominated by global brands. In the past, there were individual owners and entrepreneurs who handled small-scale hotels. But this business has grown a lot in 2018. The hotel sector is further divided into many categories. They include Delux, Upscale, Luxury, Extended stay, Midscale, and Economy. Luxury and Upscale hotels are expensive and mostly businessmen stay in these hotels while traveling. While Midscale hotels are the most common in this market. Economy hotels, just as the name suggests, have slightly lower rates for those who are traveling on a limited budget. Extended Stay hotels have relatively larger rooms which are styled as apartments. Hotel Investment Trends In 2018 This sector is the most stable investment in this year. It has stayed the healthiest investment sector. This year is considered to be a balanced year for hotel investment. The number of tourists and business travelers has maintained the hotel earnings. Investors are looking for more opportunities for hotel investment to diversify their income. They have to carefully operate their hotels, otherwise rushed and in timely decisions can seriously affect the profitability of any hotel investment. Here are some of the tips for investing in a hotel. Before you invest your money, you should do your homework about this sector. Carefully examine the brands and their performance, select the one which has performed the best in a year or so, and then study its policies. If you are looking to invest in a local area, do a careful research on what kind of hotel can thrive there. For example, a luxury hotel might not be a good idea for a local area. It would not be profitable for the investor. Establish a realistic budget before investing in a hotel. It depends on your budget, what kind of Hotel you are going to establish. If you have the money, you can go for a deluxe or upscale hotel, otherwise, go for midscale or economy. Set a realistic room rate according to the area. If your rates are too high, not many travelers will be able to afford it. Hence it will decrease the occupancy rate of your investment. You should keep it in mind that no investment is always 100% secure. You might want to be ready for any pitfalls. It may be that the hotel does not reach the desired occupancy level, or they are setbacks in construction. Be prepared for any of it. Whenever you are investing in a hotel, always look for extra expenditures. Whereas some investments can also offer extra benefits as well. Make an estimate of extra benefits and expenditures before investing in a hotel. This way you will have a fair idea of your property. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top