Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Why 2018 Is Great For Multifamily Investors View Larger Image Multifamily investors say that multifamily estates are highly proficient in their line of work. Meaning they provide everything under one roof. Sadly, many don’t share the same thoughts but at least nobody can deny that multifamily estates are bound to grow this year. How so? Let’s see: Reasons for The Sudden Fluctuations Although the market for multifamily estates have been fluctuating ever since 2017 started but such changes will increase by at least 5 to 10 percent in 2018. The demand for single apartments is still very much large but with the purchase of every one apartment, two multifamily estates are crossed off. 1. Rent According to the latest reports, the rents are paving way for a considerable increase this year. Income is going to be generated in quite the flow and with an increase in the rate of income, the rents will increase hence generating for revenue. 2. Labor Market The labor market is said to be one of the reasons for the fluctuations in the multifamily estate demands. The rates of unemployment have decreased considerably in the past few years especially in 2017 where the change was as visible as your reflection in the mirror. According to the predictions laid in front by the courtesy of reports and logistics, this unemployment rate is expected to decrease even more than 2017. This will allow the revenue to be generated in numbers and the labor market will flourish. All in all, the trend of multifamily estates will increase accordingly. 3. Vacancy Rates Vacancy rates remain high as before. Past year’s result showed everyone that vacancy rates have increased. Logic points in the same direction this year as well. However, with increase in vacancy rates, rents will go up eventually. Again, paving way for multifamily agenda. Why would anyone risk such high amount of money for a single apartment when they can acquire a full fledge house for it? Nobody would do that unless and until he/she can afford it and generates enough income to stay peacefully. Perspective on Multifamily Estate Although there have been many signs which led you all to believe the increase in multifamily investments, keep in mind that in the end it depends upon the individual. If a specific individual can handle his income, has a plan for his/herself then you can almost wave goodbye to multifamily trends. At the same time, it is highly possible for the market to completely rotate and generate huge amounts of revenue. Either way, as far as the reports and other such functioning go, 2018 will be lucky for all the multifamily investors out there. The rest depends upon the market itself. Final Verdict It is common to point out that predictions regarding the market are highly unpredictable. One minute you will be soaring and the next minute a recession will be upon you. Real estate follow the same rules, it can very well flourish completely or it might not. But whatever the market says, remember to stick to your own comfort and peace. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top