Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Investing In Multifamily Homes – Is It Good Any Real Estate Investor Do It? View Larger Image If you are a real estate investor or starting your venture as a real estate investor, then you have multiple investment options which include investing in single-family units, condos, apartments, townhouses, commercial, residential and industrial properties and multi-family homes. The most appropriate investment whether you are a beginner or in the real estate industry for long will be to invest in multifamily homes. Multifamily homes mean there are many residential spaces in a single unit. It could also mean apartments or a single unit housing 2 to 3 different families. Basically, more tenants in one area or space. The benefits of investing in multifamily homes are many. Increased Cash Flow The major advantage is an increase in cash flow. When you invest in a single family unit, you have one tenant for rent and if that tenant leaves then you will have to look for other tenants, till then your cash flow is halted. In case of multifamily homes, there are more than one tenants so even if one leaves then your rent will not stop. Ease In Maintenance When you invest in multifamily homes, you might invest in building apartments, or a unit with 3 to 4 families living in it, so maintenance costs are easier. You can hire one person to look after the maintenance issues regarding electricity, water, and gas. In a single family unit, you will need to hire separate people for looking after maintenance issues which can increase your costs. Portfolio Growth As an investor the more properties you have under your name it will be more profitable for you in the future and will also increase your portfolio. You will have multiple residential units under your name which will give you more experience and more name. Increase In Value The value of multifamily homes will appreciate over time, due to the fact that many families are living there and if it forms into a community then more people would want to reside there, hence the value of the overall property will appreciate. Lesser Taxes The more single-family separate units you will have, then there will be a tax on all the single-family units. Whereas in case of multifamily homes, the property will be single with many tenants of families residing there so the tax will also be of one property rather than of all the families, so it will save costs in the long run. Luxury of A Property Manager when you will have many families under your name then obviously you will need to outsource your managerial decisions and you will need to hire a manager who can look after and make decisions. When you are earning not then you can hire a manager for the percentage of profits. This will give you the time to search for the profitable investment opportunities. It is more appropriate for you to invest in multifamily homes due to so many advantages plus this investment has more demand in the future and will also increase potential profits, due to an increase in population and increase in friendly and family oriented areas. —————————————————————————————————————— By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Go to Top