Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Top 4 Multifamily Investing Trends You Should Follow In 2018 View Larger Image Multifamily investment is taking a distinct turn in 2018 with considerations which were not valued before given significant importance. This year could be a game changer for people wishing to invest in such markets. This article will highlight the top investment trends which will probably be seen this year, and you should plan your activities accordingly. The following is how the market is expected to take a detour this year. 1. Value of the Suburbs At one point it was noticed that the suburbs were not usually preferred by people as their community to live in because it did not have all the necessities of life at a walk. Families in the suburbs had to go an extra mile to make sure children went to better schools and that the house always had staple needs. This year, however, we expect this to change because suburban communities present a kind of peace of mind which commercialized areas cannot comprehend. With the introduction of convenient online travel services, people are trying more and more to become part of suburban communities. 2. Less Populated Regions In 2018, just like previous years, the housing market is looking to take advantage of the sheer mass of people looking for preferred homes, and vertical landscapes are great in commercial areas except in the case where the family in question does not want the fully urbanized attention. We expect this year to be one in which less populated regions will get more attention than the vicinities of famous neighborhoods. These decisions will mostly be taken by millennials who want their space and want to stay perfectly connected with the world, but both within a certain limit. 3. Job Prospects and Ease of Life This year we estimate that people will try to cut down on their travel time and get homes in places where their permanent job settlement (if any) is near and if not then at least schooling and amenities are nearby. By doing so people are not only trying to cut down on their cost but also on the time they unproductively spend driving around. This is also a reason why top-tier organizations are trying to get offices in most of the common neighborhoods around the country. Multifamily markets where these locations are much nearer to you will rise a lot in importance over the year. 4. Class B Renovations Falling homeownership rates in the US serve as evidence of how the general populous is not able to afford most of the new constructions in multifamily neighborhoods. This is essentially why property owners and builders who have decided to renovate class B properties for new buyers are getting a lot of attention these days. People are settling with having a rented place more and more by the day, so if there’s any house that you can buy for a reasonable amount in a respected multifamily neighborhood it should certainly be there for the taking. Posted by Randy Blakeslee – GetnSocial By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top