Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Should You Use Technology For Real Estate Investing? View Larger Image In a world of today, technology seems to grow faster and faster with every minute. It is important to be aware of the recent trends of technology because it can help us in ways unimaginable to the human mind. It gives the required amount of information, details about a certain thing, an insight and of course the opinions of dear public. Now real estate investing is an entirely different matter but with the ruling power of technology on peak, it can squeeze itself into anything nowadays. Real estate investing has become easier with the use of technology. The hurdles people would face in the past are no longer there in fact the entire work has become much easier and can be attained much faster. But question arises: is that enough? Let’s answer it by calculating the pros and cons Pros 1. Time Saving With technology you can save time. How so? Well instead of just meeting with client, you can contact several others through your Skype accounts or talk to someone via social media letting them know about your projects and deals. 2. Accessible Sometimes you have to wait for a long time before you can actually present your work and your proposition etc. to a client. With technology, you can just send him/her the details and the necessary requirement without having to run around so as to avoid the unnecessary hard work. 3. Advertisement The internet is a whole new world with millions of ways to get amazing business opportunities. You can create one for yourself by creating a blog or a website related to real estate investment. By sharing it on various platforms, you can advertise your skills and attract potential customers. Cons 1. Invalid Information While we discussed the necessary pros of technology, you cannot ignore the cons surrounding it. The most dangerous and common one is the invalid information. The internet is a great place to fool people as well. Somebody might fool you and get you in deeper trouble. Or they could use your information and compromise it. The fact that you’ve never seen the person live, can also create many problems. So while it is easy to contact via social Medias or emails or phones, it is best if you have a face to face meeting as well. 2. Misuse of Your Information As already discussed, somebody can also misuse your information or your work details in this case the real estate details and cause you bigger problems. Final Verdict Hence keeping in mind the above facts, we would suggest to go neutral meaning you can use technology for your necessary advertisement and save your time from the excessive work of meeting your clients or waiting for them if they live far away. But before setting your deals, have a face to face meeting with him/her. Find out the necessary information so you’d know whether you’re being duped or not. Put up the landscapes and houses you wish to sell on your blogs or websites but do not disclose all the information. So in short, go neutral with it and calculate your every step before taking a final decision! By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top