Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next 4 Expert Advices To Be Successful At Multifamily Investing View Larger Image The housing market is very attractive with all the instant profits and payments you see people making in their success stories, but what is the recipe to reach the level? As you might have guessed, it is not that easy a task to own the market swiftly after entering it; there are a lot of lessons you need to learn to be able to start with a blast. This article aims to identify those lessons as advice for you to bear in mind as your progress in this segment of your professional life. 1. Increase Contacts Being a one-man army is great in movies because there can’t be many main protagonists, but in real life, a hero is someone who knows how to build contacts around him/her for more benefits. Once you enter the market start contacting individuals you know have been successful in buying/selling property and start listening to their stories. In addition, try to get in touch with creative individuals in the sectors of IT and management who can market you as an efficient buyer and raise your prospects in the market. The key, at the end of the day, lies in being as active as you can when it comes to engaging with people. 2. Quick Decision Making This may seem like a point which contradicts the entire essence of long-term investments but it is important to understand that the housing industry waits for no one today. This means that if in your first detailed look you are unable to decide on investing in a property that has really good prospects in the near future, chances of you finding that property available for the same price or available at all will be very slim. You need to have a checklist of interests prepared based on which you decide whether you are in favor making a positive decision or not. If the list agrees then you go ahead with it, otherwise hunt down a better deal as fast as you can. 3. Choose Partners Wisely You will have many contacts in your smartphone perhaps a month after you actively take part in the housing market and its activities, and it is only natural for you to run out of investment funds to buy an entire property on your own. In such times you might want to approach people for working as a joint unit, which is a great idea except for the chances of fraudulence are quite high. So when it comes to partners, make sure that you carry sufficient scrutiny, are strict with your decisions, and become a fast realizer of when things become hopeless so that you minimize your losses. 4. Take Risks If today you learn that a city near yours is offering superb multifamily properties and you are confident that you can manage the costs in your present capacity, pack your bags and hurry before it’s too late. Do your homework and do not be unprepared under these circumstances otherwise, such risks can become costly. At the same time, these risks are what allow lucky breakthroughs to head your way and change your prospects as an investor for the better. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top