Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Is a Recession Looming? Looking at Key Indicators to Help Piece it Together… View Larger Image “We stand today at a crossroads: One path leads to despair and utter hopelessness. The other leads to total extinction. Let us hope we have the wisdom to make the right choice.” -Woody Allen Is a Recession Looming? Looking at Key Indicators to Help Piece it Together… Is a Recession Looming? Developing our Investment Framework. With the insanity of this Presidential cycle in full swing, everything a soundbite, and more Lies being told than Truth, we figured we would escape the madness by burying ourselves deep in data. While the data can occasionally be suspect (and much more so in China), we find great value and comfort in looking at history, looking at today’s data, and piecing together the picture. The Data and Analysis are much more reliable and honest than either Hillary or Trump! So, our team at Avid Realty Partners has been busy developing our investment framework and assessing key economic, growth, and housing indicators to try and figure out if and when a Recession will kick in. We look at a variety of metrics, including New Orders (ISM and others), Production (PPI), Inventories, Housing and Apartment Starts, Housing Sales and Inventories, Mortgage Rates, Loan Delinquencies, GDP, Inflation, Interest rates, Fed Assets, and more. Select stock market indices and the VIX volatility index are also among our favorite indicators. If the data suggests a Recession may be looming, then we look to buy commercial realty properties at lower prices, and we would expect softness in Occupancy, Rates, and Collections, among other factors. Otherwise, we push forward judiciously. Here are some conclusions: Download our free Investment Framework research piece here. Generally, controllable factors in the economy are at healthy levels, though Fed Assets is one that makes us nervous. We see solid and improving employment numbers (within the context of a low labor participation rate and significant social unrest), suggesting businesses are hiring and growing. We see that Loan Delinquencies are very low, Housing Starts are rational, and total US Construction spending is still in control. Other metrics like ISM new orders and the PPI suggest the economy is humming ahead. We do see economic risks too. We do see a variety of broader economic risks for the US, too, including 1) Government Debt; 2) Federal Reserve balance sheet assets; 3) Cheap Money Risks; 4) The lower and middle-class workers are seeing wages rise more slowly than prices of goods and services, creating unrest; and 5) It has been eight full years since the last Recession and these events happen cyclically. That said, adding it all up, when we look at key economic indicators (mostly US-based), we see that generally, things look pretty healthy at this moment, though we admit things can change quickly. Ramping Crowdfunding Effort via Meetup.com Platform. Recently, Avid Realty Partners began to build out its Crowdfunding Platform. While this effort is in its early and formative days, we intend to Crowdsource deals, analysis, and capital to pursue the most attractive MFU Apartment and Hotel opportunities in the market. Join our Commercial Realty Investment Club if you would like to participate in analyzing and investing in sizable commercial realty projects. If you have a deal you would like to pursue as the Project Sponsor, reach out to us with deal specifics here. We seek Accredited Investors and Off-Market Properties. If you are an accredited investor interested in reviewing some of our current deals, just let us know. Also, we seek attractive off-market opportunities, particularly class B/C value-add MFU Apartments in the 100-200 unit size. If you have any such opportunities, please contact us. Thank you for your time, and have a great rest of the week — Craig and Dave Craig Berger, CFA CPA Co-Founder, Avid Realty Partners Delivering Outstanding Customer Experiences and strong risk-managed Investor Returns David Cummings, CFP Co-Founder, Avid Realty Partners By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Search Categories Economic Analysis & Forecasts Economic and Multifamily Outlook Economic and Real Estate Insights 2024 Economic Insights and Analysis Educational Fed Interest Rates finance Hotel Investment Inflation Investors Job Market Loan Types & Strategies Millennial Investment Trends Multifamily Investment Multifamily Real Estate Investing Multifamily Real Estate Mastery Press Releases Property Real Estate and Economy Real Estate Financing Real Estate Investments Real Estate Trends & Insights Research Sustainable Real Estate Development Tax Advantages Technology Transitioning in Real Estate Uncategorized Urban Sustainability US Treasuries and the Bond Market Tags 2024 Economic and Multifamily Outlook 2024 Economic Outlook 2024 Multifamily Outlook advantages Apartment Apartment Investors Avid Realty Partners Benefits of Multifamily Investments Brooklyn Buyers commercial real estate condos dallas deal Election Cycle Employment Indicators equity finance hotel investing investment investors management Manhattan MFU MFU Apartments mulifamily mullti family unit Multi-Family Apartment multifamily Multifamily Investing MultiFamily Real Estate Multifamily Real Estate Investing Multifamily Real Estate Trends multifamily unit newyork nyc properties property realestate real estate Real Estate Insights Real Estate Investors rental Resale Market ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top