Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Different Ways to Invest in Multifamily Apartments (Part 1) View Larger Image If you are looking forward to invest in multifamily apartments, then you definitely need to check this wonderful information. Here you will find everything that you need to know to start investing in multifamily apartments in the best ways. Cash and Trusts as a way to Invest in Multifamily Apartments Cash and trusts can be very good ways to invest in multifamily apartments and in this article we are going to explain you the definition of these two matters and how they would work in the investment process. First of all, investing in cash brings really good advantages in the multifamily apartments business such as tax benefits. This happens because this kind of investment generates depreciation that is a tax reduction that functions for offsetting the wear and tearing of real property. In the other hand, we have trusts that are estate tax management tools that work for invest in multifamily apartments as if they were cash. There are a lot of types of trusts you can choose as revocable and irrevocable or living and testamentary ones. How to Invest in Qualified Accounts Before to start talking deeply about how to invest in qualified accounts it is essential to clarify what qualified accounts are. Basically, qualified accounts are government approved retirement savings accounts that have special considerations and if they are self-directed then you will be able to keep tax advantages of the plan and invest almost in any moment of the year. In general terms, to have a self-directed account only means that you can invest in anything that an investment management firm offers. How to Invest making an Intelligent Borrowing There are two possible scenarios when investing in intelligent borrowing. The first one is when without any penalty you are able to borrow qualified dollars to cash. The second case presents an opportunity to employ a kind of interest rate arbitrage in which you are able to borrow with a lower rate for gaining returns at a higher rate. There are 3 types of intelligent borrowing that you can try and they are: 1. HELOC: basically all that you have to do if you chose this option of intelligent borrowing is to take out a line of credit or a home equity loan to proceed with your investment. 2. 401k loan: what you do in this type of investment strategy is to take a loan from the company you belonged to, that must be sponsored by a 401k plan. The thing about this is that you can convert about $50,000 in qualified tax-deferred money that will transform to cash. 3. Loan from Whole Life Insurance Policy: all that you have to do is to loan out of your whole life policy in order to start investing commercial real estate. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top