Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next How Pro Investors Choose The Right Multifamily Estate To Invest In View Larger Image Being a pro-investor is nothing but being someone who rationally ticks all the basic and obvious checkboxes, and we are not kidding when we say that sometimes those boxes are not obvious at all. The only pro advice that you can get is to be as aware of the market surrounding you as possible, and the rest is just a follow up of being that aware individual. People who have made it big in the real estate market have made sure that they place their profits and legal responsibilities above all others, and you can do that through the following steps. 1. The Price of the Unit In the race for getting a great return on their investment, investors often forget to look at how important the initial price of the property is. The basic rule you should follow is that if the property seems to out of reach, to begin with, and you have to add up a number of loans to afford it, ignore it. Price is so important because you need to property to start making a profit for you as soon as possible, especially if it is not a passive form of income. If each unit takes 10 years to get to the point that you reach the mark of profitability, then the investment isn’t exactly fruitful. 2. Rent Received Multifamily units are excellent for investment because you will always have a market of people who will be ready to pay a certain amount to avail your place. Regardless of how ruthless you are, you cannot be a dealer who makes superfluous deals and expects to get away with them with a tenant in hand. At the same time, you cannot be extremely generous and show the party on the other end that you have no real authority over the deal. Strike the perfect balance and work for a rent which is realistic, convert your management and profit costs, and does not qualify you as a highly exploitative individual. 3. Number of Properties The reason many have started opting for the multifamily market is that they can invest their hard earned in different places to reduce the absolute risk that comes attached to each property. If you enter into a partnership with a few individuals and decide to purchase a number of properties with an apportioned share, then you need to be careful that the properties are too less to maximize the risk or too much to minimize the profit. Again, it is all about the balance. 4. Location of the Complex If you are interested in an apartment which is extremely well furnished and ready to use, and you have to travel 30 minutes away from the main city to get back to your current place of residence, then do consider that families interested in getting a property on rent will also consider such discomforts. The importance of selecting a prime location in the city cannot be emphasized on enough. So long as you have the apartment in a clean, commercially liked, and secured area, the higher price will lead you to reliable families who are willing to pay more for the great place. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top