Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next 5 Reasons Why Hotels Are Good Idea For Property Investment Beginners View Larger Image If you want to secure your future, business is huge important. Businesses are the growth drivers of the economy of any country as well as they are good for your self-growth also. If you already have a business, have you ever planned for an expansion of your business? When engaging in business, you need to learn on how to manage your money and do investment. If you are planning for investment then we must say that investment in hotels is a great choice for you. Investing in real estate can be a good decision but for property investment beginners, investing in hotels can be a smart decision. Hotel investments are a specialist property investment strategy that falls under the commercial property sector. Benefits of investing in hotel for property investment beginners: 1. Earn More Income If you are a property investment beginner and investing in a hotel, it offers you the opportunity to earn more income as you can gain handsome returns. It is a fact that properties used in the hospitality industry as hotels, resorts or restaurants give you more profit as compared to others. 2. Get High Rent As a beginner, if you will invest in hotels, the rent derived from this investment will be considerably highly, which means you will be able to create an additional source of income. This source of income will give you a large amount of money every month. 3. Income Grows with The Tourist’s Growth People just love to visit different places and hotel is the only place which is mostly preferred by them. So, due to the growing number of travelers and tourists, investing in this sector will give a handsome gain. 4. Variety of Investing Options for Hotel Investors The hospitality industry offers you a variety of options where you can invest your money. But it also depends on the size of your investments also your risk-taking capacity. Also, this industry is growing at a fast pace, the possibilities of investments are endless. You can choose the best options as per your requirements. 5. Risk Factor With the possibility of investing in hotels, it is quite possible that you will start getting returns on your investment in a very short period. But also, it is important that you should take care of certain aspects while investing in hotels, such as interest rates of a mortgage loan for commercial properties, background of the hotel and property etc. but one thing is constant that investing in hotels will always give you desired results. You will never get disappoint after investing in hotels. Bottom Line If you are a property investment beginner, it’s good for you to start as a hotel investor. Hotel has two aspects which can help you earn more money. Firstly, you can earn as a landlord and secondly, you can take part in the actual hotel business also. So, you have an additional opportunity to earn. Good luck! By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top