Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Things to know Before You Take the Big Leap View Larger Image So, you have finally decided to invest in property. You read all the magazines, reports, and books you can find. You checked all websites for potential properties. But, just when you thought you were ready, you suddenly stopped. Well, don’t worry because you are not alone. Many people also feel overwhelmed by the process and they quit way before they start. If you don’t want to end up like thousands of others like you, make sure you follow these 8 steps when buying your first ever investment property. Know Your Finances It all starts by getting a list of your assets, which include taking not of your incomes and identifying your expenses. It will give you a good idea as to how much available cash you’ve got to invest. Never assume right away that investing is out of your league. Provided that you have a reasonably good paying and stable job and a solid employment history to back you up, getting a loan wouldn’t be an issue. Acquire a Pre-approval A pre-approval can be acquired either directly through your chosen lender or a reliable mortgage broker. Seeking the help of a broker before you apply for pre-approval can help if you are unsure if you are financially prepared to invest. Set Goals For you to reach your goals, the first step is to determine your goals. You also need to set a definite deadline for when you would like to achieve these goals, and from there, you can start working backwards. Start Budgeting It isn’t sexy and it isn’t even interesting. However, budgeting is the only way to make sure that you are able to balance your expenses and income. It enables you to see where you have been spending your money. Aside from that, it helps you plan for huge expenses down the line. There is good budgeting tool available like a spreadsheet tool and budget planner. See to it that you set it up even before you begin to look for a property. Make Sure to Know the Risks Involved Your risk profile would dictate your strategy. What kind of risk could you tolerate? Getting understanding of your attitude to risk will help you make a strategy that reflects it. Develop Your Own Purchase Plan What does a perfect purchase plan look like? It must help your goals of growing portfolio to a point where it producing the income or growth you are aiming for. It must serve as a structure for you to be on the right track. Stay Focused It is important that you are focused in terms of buying your first investment property. Remember that investing in properties is a business decision and not a type of emotional reaction. Be Informed Always use the available tools to make an informed decision. Knowing your market is essential to make the right investment choice. For some valuable insights, know more about real estate investing. Considering those steps above before buying your first investment property can make a difference and will surely give you peace of mind in the long run. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top