Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Multifamily Property Investing And Its Many Advantages View Larger Image The easiest and most reliable form is business these days is an investment in property. If you have extra cash lying about, or you want a good investment opportunity to save, accumulate and increase your cash amount than the best investment will be in multi-family property. What Is Multifamily Property? When you hear the word investment, then you have two options: single family unit or multi-family unit. Many of you think that investing in a single-family unit is better as it is easier to manage everything, but what you do not realize is that a multi-family unit is more easy to manage as compared to a single family unit and many advantages. Advantages of Multifamily Property Investment 1. More Cash Flow When you are investing in a single-family unit than you have just one tenant who pays you rent and if that tenant leaves for some reason then you will have a vacancy risk, your cash flow will stop and you will have to search for a new tenant soon. In case of a multifamily unit, you will have more tenants who will be paying rent, there will be less vacancy risk and you will not be worried if one tenant leaves, as your cash flow will not be stopped. 2. Easier To Manage You may feel that more families are hard to manage, but you are wrong. If you have to manage 4 single unit of houses and 4 families living in a multi-family unit, then which is better? Obviously, the multi-family unit. If you have to manage 4 single units, then you will have to employ property manager to each, look all the problems in 4 different places, whereas in a multifamily unit, it is all under one roof, so it is easier to manage. Yes, there will be 4 sets of electrical appliances and other stuff but you will not have to go anywhere. 3. Increased Profit The cost of building a multi-family unit is more than a single unit, but not much. All you can do add 2 to 3 more units in your existing single unit, so you will not have to go through the hassle of constructing a multi-family unit from scratch. Also, in different single units, you have the cost of employing a separate property manager for different single units as you cannot manage all, whereas, for a multi-family unit, you will just need one property manager, which will increase your profits. Also, there will be fewer taxes, you will be paying more taxes for 4 single units that a multi-family unit with 4 families. 4. Added Value A multi-family unit is more profitable in the future. If people are looking for investment opportunities and your unit is working well, then they will proceed towards you. Also, you can do some renovations and increase the curb appeal of your multi-family unit so that more tenant can be attracted. When more tenants are attracted then the value of your property will increase. You cannot do the same for a single unit as the value will not be affected as much as for a multifamily unit. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top