Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Previous Next Importance Lessons Learned From Investing In Multifamily Units View Larger Image Investing in multifamily units is a common real estate action which is carried out by perhaps most people who want to actively enter the market, but what have we learned from all these years of investing? Here you shall be exposed to some of the most major lessons which you can learn before you head out into the market in search of your own way of getting regular money. 1. Always Be Rational Rationality can be blinded in people who are perhaps too prideful or ambitious for their own good. It is always nice to be humble as an investor in the real estate market because the key is to understand that the number of investors is only going up, and if you pick a good place then it is only fair that you pay a good price. By this we do not mean that you succumb to pressure from the seller; just be aware of the interests you want to maintain and if you see them being met, do not hesitate to sign the deal. 2. Negotiate Once and Clearly This step is really important for you to show that you are a credible buyer who values his/her words. People who start re-negotiating once the contract has been signed are looked down upon by sellers because it is an indication that you are unable to stand your ground and do not value the property in question. There are, of course, exceptional cases such as damages to the property you were unable to note before. However, asking for extra payment under the head of renovation etc. is quite silly because it is the best way to make the owner reluctant. 3. Research Thoroughly The digital approach which is being taken by the real estate market today which involves properties being displayed with all its details online really has made the market a lot more approachable. But if you rely on what you see online or what you hear from agents alone can be a little problematic because each authority, at the end of the day, has its own agenda. So before you make the seller sit on the negotiating table, be sure you know as much as you should about the property to avoid being taken by surprise later on. 4. Value Quality of Expense for Management This is an absolute pro tip because property managers today come in all shapes and prices. Furthermore, the notion in the market regarding these managers is that the lesser the payment the better. The notion holds nothing true because dealing with a less paid manager causes much more hassle because such a firm is likely not to be devoted to doing work with as much diligence as a renowned property management firm that charges more. So value the work over your quest to save money. Note: The real estate can be brutal sometimes, so it is important to be patient and not give in to pressure by partnering up with suspicious or unreliable individuals to by properties together. Whether you work as an individual or as part of a group, preserve your interests actively and do not allow any other party to topple you. By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top