Skip to content X Facebook Instagram LinkedIn YouTube 212-540-4540 Research Investor Portal About Investment Opportunities Portfolio Careers Media Contact Us Invest with Us Next Avid Realty Partners Proudly Celebrates its Two Year Anniversary; Begins Market Updates View Larger Image Avid Realty Partners Proudly Celebrates its Two-Year Anniversary; Begins Market Updates Celebrating Our Two Year Anniversary. Avid Realty Partners, a diversified Real Estate Investment and Development company investing in MFU Apartments and Hotels, is proud to announce its two-year anniversary. Co-Founded by Craig Berger and David Cummings and partnering with many other talented individuals along the way, our firm is focused on providing outstanding Customer Experiences at a good value, enabling our employees to succeed, and delivering strong risk-managed returns to our investors. We look forward to celebrating many more successful projects and anniversaries together with you in the future. Beginning our Market Research effort. In keeping with Craig Berger’s well-documented history of producing detailed Research, we will begin to release Commercial Realty and Macro focused research periodically — some of it created and analyzed by us, and some of it sourced from other leading firms. This is data that we look at regularly to help us make market and investment decisions, and we thought it would be a value-add to format it and share it with you as interesting updates become available. Download our Free MFU Apartment trends analysis here. Apartment market fundamentals remain solid, but broader economic risks remain. In short, we believe Apartment market fundamentals remain solid but do still depend on broader economic and consumer-driven trends that would weaken during an economic downturn. On the positive side, Rental Vacancy Rates are attractive compared to long-term trends, and Rental Rate increases have been substantial (but should level off), driving robust profits. For the negatives, new Apartment supply is ramping meaningfully following very low build rates during and after the Great Recession (2010-2012), thus driving risks to Vacancy Rates and Rental Rate growth (though much of this supply is Class A apartments and not Class B/C). Also, we see high per-door Apartment prices as the biggest risk to investing in apartments at the present time, though strong cash flow properties can still be sourced and should allow most investors to ride out any economic soft spots. Ramping Crowdfunding Effort via Meetup.com Platform. Recently, Avid Realty Partners began to build out its Crowdfunding Platform. While this effort is in its early and formative days, we intend to Crowdsource deals, analysis, and capital to pursue the most attractive MFU Apartment and Hotel opportunities in the market. Join our Commercial Realty Investment Club if you would like to participate in analyzing and investing in sizable commercial realty projects. If you have a deal you would like to pursue as the Project Sponsor, reach out to us with deal specifics here. We seek Accredited Investors and Off-Market Properties. As always, we seek attractive off-market opportunities in both the MFU Apartment and Hotel spaces. If you have any such opportunities, please contact us. Also, if you are an accredited investor interested in reviewing some of our current deals, just let us know. Thank you for your time and attention, and have a great rest of the week — Craig and Dave Craig Berger, CFA CPA Co-Founder, Avid Realty Partners Delivering Outstanding Customer Experiences and strong risk-managed Investor Returns David Cummings, CFP Co-Founder, Avid Realty Partners By Craig Berger|0 Comments Share This Story, Choose Your Platform! Facebook X LinkedIn WhatsApp About the Author: Craig Berger Founder & CEO of Avid Realty Partners. Craig has been an active real estate investor for nearly 20 years, and founded Avid Realty Partners in 2015 to deploy capital across Multifamily Apartment and other real estate assets. Avid Realty Partners’ portfolio includes the acquisition of more than 2,000 apartment and hotel doors in targeted growth markets across the US totaling over $275M of acquisition value. The firm has zero realized losses with a 33.0% IRR (weighted average) across six exited deals. Related Posts View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details View Details Leave A Comment Comment Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Search Categories Economic Analysis & Forecasts Economic and Multifamily Outlook Economic and Real Estate Insights 2024 Economic Insights and Analysis Educational Fed Interest Rates finance Hotel Investment Inflation Investors Job Market Loan Types & Strategies Millennial Investment Trends Multifamily Investment Multifamily Real Estate Investing Multifamily Real Estate Mastery Press Releases Property Real Estate and Economy Real Estate Financing Real Estate Investments Real Estate Trends & Insights Research Sustainable Real Estate Development Tax Advantages Technology Transitioning in Real Estate Uncategorized Urban Sustainability US Treasuries and the Bond Market Tags 2024 Economic and Multifamily Outlook 2024 Economic Outlook 2024 Multifamily Outlook advantages Apartment Apartment Investors Avid Realty Partners Benefits of Multifamily Investments Brooklyn Buyers commercial real estate condos dallas deal Election Cycle Employment Indicators equity finance hotel investing investment investors management Manhattan MFU MFU Apartments mulifamily mullti family unit Multi-Family Apartment multifamily Multifamily Investing MultiFamily Real Estate Multifamily Real Estate Investing Multifamily Real Estate Trends multifamily unit newyork nyc properties property realestate real estate Real Estate Insights Real Estate Investors rental Resale Market ABOUT Why Avid Realty Partners Investment Approach Track Record Meet the Avid Team MEDIA Blog Events News Videos LEARN MORE Investment Opportunities Portfolio Research Careers CONTACT US Avid Realty Partners 14 East 33rd Street, Suite 7s New York, NY 10016 212-540-4540 Get in Touch with Our Team WE ARE SOCIAL © 2023 Avid Realty Partners. Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions Website & Brand Development by 2ROCK1 Media Go to Top